# hackerthonproject

## Check it out here! 
https://hackerthonproject.netlify.app/

## Goals of the project
Professors more than ever depend on the online resources and tools provided to them. Since so much work is still done remotely struggling students can be easily left unnoticed. To help professors deal with this we decided to add an additional page to their Canvas that focuses on helping the class and students. Our goal with this is to keep professors connected with the class by providing them easy access information about how the class is doing as a whole and individually.

## Desired user experience
The project is designed to help instructors with understanding the overall class performance and which topics students are most struggling with through a newly added "report" feature. The report includes class performance, struggling topics, and struggling students. The class performance would display a graph generated by averaging all the students grades every week. The struggling topics are made from the tags the professors put on questions. Then it lists the three most missed tags (topics) from most missed to least. It shows the rate in which those types of questions are missed and additional resources that the professor can provide for that specific topic. Then at the bottom we have a link that goes to the 5 most struggling students. In an instant the professor can view which students need the most help and how poorly they are doing. Sometimes students aren't accurately represented in the class averages and so this tool is part of making sure that no student is left behind.

## Implementation details
For the main page, we used HTML and CSS to replicate a page that looks like Canvas. 
For the report feature in particular, we split it into two main parts: 
- One page is going to display the graph of the class overall performance (Week vs GPA). 
- The other page is going to display the students who are currently struggling in the class. We are going to have their picture on there along with their name, major, struggling topic, and current grade in the class. 

## Issues encountered, bugs fixed or still present, and future work to be done (every project has them!
The challenge we had was to format each character and element. 
In addition, we are not familar with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, so we had issues with the syntax. To solve these issues we discussed with each other and looked up resources online. Many times the resources we found were only somewhat relevant to what we were doing so we would either have to change our approach to theirs or keep ours and continue looking.
For the future we would want our project to take data from Canvas to make our report. Currently the data presented in our Report page are example outputs we coded in. So we would want to be able to read in students grades to generate the graph, filter the top missed tags from questions and list them, and be able to dynamically change the 5 most struggling students. Another thing to do in the future is keep a consistent clean look throughout the pages. Right now each page is designed separately and so we would want to agree on one look/style then commit to that.
